#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{times}
\usepackage{microtype}
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
HW #5
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Mo Zhou
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

<mzhou32@jhu.edu>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Discuss the mode collapse issue in GANs and propose a solution to mitigate
 this problem.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Consider a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) which successfully produces
 images of apples.
 Which of the following propositions is 
\series bold
false
\series default
?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(i) The generator aims to learn the distribution of apple images.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(ii) The discriminator can be used to classify images as apple vs.
 non-apple.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(iii) After training the GAN, the discriminator loss eventually reaches
 a constant value.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(iv) The generator can produce unseen images of apples.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Which of the following is a non-iterative method to generate adversarial
 examples? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(i) Non-Saturating Cost Method
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(ii) Input Optimization Method 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(iii) Adversarial Training 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(iv) Logit Pairing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(v) Fast Gradient Sign Method
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
(vi) Real-time Cryptographic Dropout Method
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Prove that Class Activation Map method is a special case of GRAD-CAM.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Analyze the performance vs explainability tradeoffs for the following machine
 learning/AI algorithms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
a.
 Bayes nets
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
b.
 Deep learning networks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
What is the best way to combine the performance of deep learning methods
 and the interpretability of older methods?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
