#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Linear Algebra and Learning from Data
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Links
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Flex URL
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://math.mit.edu/~gs/learningfromdata/
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Functions of Deep Learning
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The nonlinear function called 
\begin_inset Formula $\text{ReLU}(x)=x_{+}=max(x,0)$
\end_inset

 was originally smoothed into a logistic curve like 
\begin_inset Formula $1/(1+e^{-x})$
\end_inset

 .
 It was reasonable to think that continuous derivatives would help in optimizing
 the weights 
\begin_inset Formula $A,\mathbf{b},C$
\end_inset

.
 That proved to be wrong.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
...
 The network becomes deeper as 
\begin_inset Formula $L$
\end_inset

 increases.
 That depth can grow quickly for convolutional nets (with banded Toeplitz
 matrices A).
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
In linear algebra, a Toepalitz matrix or diagonal-constant matrix, named
 after Otto Toeplitz, is a matrix in which each descending diagonal from
 left to right is constant.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our goal here was to identify continuous piecewise linear functions as powerful
 approximators.
 That family is also convenient – closed under addition and maximazation
 and composition.
 The magic is that the learning function 
\begin_inset Formula $F(A_{i},\mathbf{b}_{i},\mathbf{v})$
\end_inset

 gives accurate results on image 
\begin_inset Formula $\mathbf{v}$
\end_inset

 that 
\begin_inset Formula $F$
\end_inset

 has never seen.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
