Students could recieve a better, more efficient education if they spend 11
months a year studying.

------- my ----------------

Students are a group of people studying at schools, and getting themselves
prepared for finding jobs. They have relatively stationary arrangements about
school time and vacations in every term. At this point, some people claims that
studying longer at school each year could help students receive more efficient
education. I strongly disgree with this statement.

As a human, keeping focused on one thing for too long time may lead to
significantly deteriorated efficiency, and make one exhausted. For example, if
a worker keeps working on a factory, assembling products for more than 12 hours
may drastically increase the rate of mistakes, hence decrease the efficiency.
Once the workers feel weary, they have to take some breaks to regain vitality
and work efficiency. Analogically, students will get into a bad state after
studying at school for 11 months. And in that bad state, a student can hardly
fully focus on learning something as learning is already boring enough.
Therefore, longer school time doesn't mean higher education quality.

Another fact that is often neglected by people is, education is not all about
school time, and beyond what the schools can teach, there are still many things
for students to learn. Typically, some students choose to do some intern jobs
during their vacations. In such an environment totally differnt from schools,
the students could learn many different things, such as how to deal with the
relationship between colleagues, and what talents the job market is looking
for. These knowledges and skills cannot be learned in school, but they are
defenitely very important in one's life. If students are forced to study for 11
months per year, they will lose such precious chances to further improve
themselves.

In brief, studing for longer time in school doesn't mean students will get more
efficient education. In contrast, it may even sacrifice the students' chance to
make further improvement. Based on these discussions, I strongly disagree with
the other's claim.

----------- reference ----------------------------------------

It is tempting to think the more time a student spends on his studies, the
better an education he/she can hope to receive.

However, I'd hold the opposite opinion that it is impossible for a student to
get a better education by excessively studying 11 months a year.  More
schooling does not necessarily equate a better education as education
encompasses a rich array of aspects other than simply knowledge from textbooks.
