TOP54-Integrated
----------------

The lecture conveys negative attitude towards the three possible solutions
mentioned in the text for reducing the salt level in the lake. Theoretically
these solutions are supposed to work, but in fact they are impractical.

The first proposed solution is to use desalination facilities, which purifies
the water taking advantage of the evaporation process. However, the solution
missed the important solid and gaseous by-products during the process. Some of
these substances are toxic to human, such as the selenium, which can be spread
through air and threatens people's health.

The second proposed solution is to transmit ocean water level into the lake,
so that the salt level can be diluted. This solution is impractical because
it requires considerable amount of construction work and resources, as the
nearest costline is about 100km away from the lake. Such solution destines
to be bitterly expensive given the long distance.

The third solution that propose to built walls, separating the lake into
several sections to isolate the area where salt level is increasing. This
solution may work for a short period, but it is not robust enough. Many
external factors may invalidate this solution, such as intense earth quakes,
which may greatly breaks the wall and break the isolation.

reference
^^^^^^^^^

The salton sea in california is facing a problem that the salinity has been
increasing for the rapid evporation rate. The reading passage has given three
solutions while the listening part revelas the leak of them one by one.

The first option is to remove the salt directly form the lake's water by a
special desalination facility.  However, the professor argues that this method
is very likely to cause health problems.  As the water in the desalination
facilities evaporates, solid materials would be left behind, which contain
toxic chemicals, such as selenium.  Then, separating would allow these
chemicals to be spread by wind, which may pose a threat to people's health.

The second solution is bringing ocean water to the lake to silute the salt
level. The professor finds faults with this method by saying that this solution
would be quite unrealistic in consideration that the government may be not
enough money to build any pipelines or canals. Moreover, the nearest shorline
is 100km away, so the construction may cost a lot of money.

The last way is to divide the lake into several sections by building walls.
The salinity in smaller sections would increase while in largest sections, by
directing fresh water from small rivers, the salinity would be controlled.
However, the professor refutes that this measure is just provisional, since the
salton seas is located in place where the geological activities are frequent
and intense. Water from the smaller sections may mix back in the main section
so this solution will also fail very soon.

Tpo54-Indep
-----------

Prosperity of a nation involves various social and economical factors and the
effort of people. For the government, balancing the limited budget among
different aspects is crucial for the country, and bad investment decisions may
lead to severe slump in its economy. At this point, people are arguing whether
the government should spend more money in support of the arts than that of the
athletics. For me, the importance of athletics outweighs that of the arts.

Expressing support to athletics, also conveys a strong message to civils that
doing sports is good for the nation's health. Only when people live healthy
lifes, can a nation prosper. A direct reason for this is that healthy people
can live longer, and contribute longer working time for the whole society,
which undoubtedly would benefit the economy.

Investment in events such as the Olympic games will be paid back, in the form
of better economics and social advances. Actually, an Olympic game will not
stimulate the public awareness about sports, but also cosmic demand and the
technology, such as the 5G technologies that will be used in the next game.
Although indirectly, the benefits of events such as Olympic game are beyond
people's common sense.

On the other hand, we have to admit that arts are important, but I think they
are not as important as athletics. Indeed arts played critical roles in those
turmoil ages, resulting in many histories related to politics and wars.
However, nowadays we are living in a relatively peaceful decade, and the people
worldwide hate the wards. The significance of arts, unfortunately, flickered
and faded.

In this sense, why should we ask the government to invest more money for arts?

Tpo53-Indep
-----------

Recently, with the advancement in the computer science field, especially the
development of internet, has greatly improved our life standard, and ramped up
economy, introducing more job positions and boosting the productivity of the
whole society. In that sense some people deem spending money to internet as a
more important task of the government, comparing to transportation. However, in
light of the dependency chain which revealing how the economy works, that idea
could be definitely wrong.

The whole internet system depends on the transportation system. Without a good
transporation system, the construction of the internet infrastructure could be
basically impossible. For example, how to setup the network related machines
and cabels in a distant contryside without a good route? The equipments won't
be shipped to their destinations. Besides, the maintenance of the internet
could be problematic when transportation is a problem. Clearly, the network
infrastructure essentially depends on transportation system. And without a good
transportation system the internet could never come true.

Apart from that the most foundamental key towards prosperity for a country is
transportation, and the agriculture, industry and business all depend on it
unexceptionally, and so does the internet. That means the transportation could
be more vital to the nation. A direct example about how important the
transportation system is that, when transportation system is halt, food supply
could be paused at the same time, threatening people's life. But, when the
internet system is down due to, say blackouts, that won't harm too much and at
most people would just get a bit boring for a while. Undoubtedly, the
transportation system sustains the supply of our rigidly demanded goods, while
internet, in this case, becomes less important than transportation.

We appreciate the convenient life brought by the internet technologies, but
we should never forget how we reached that goal, and should never put the
cart before the horse. The statement that internet is more important than
transportation is completely wrong, and dangerous.
