001 Why people attent college?
--------------------------

After graduating from high school many young people have the option to directly
enter the work force. Most students who have the opportunity, however, decide
to go to college before finding jobs. They attent college to obtain more
choices, higher salaries, and more opportunities for advancement in an
increasingly competitive job market.

(introductory sentence; summary of the arguments;)

Before attending college, students have a limited opportunanity to specialize.
After obtaining a specific college degree a job applicant can be competitive
for previously unavailable jobs. For instance, applicatns with Computer Science
degrees would not only be qualified for jobs in high-tech companies, they would
also be well prepared for any job with computer skills as a prerequisite. With
a larger range of potential jobs to choose from, degree holders are more likely
to find a job that suites their particular needs and interests.

(arg1: obtain more choices; example; discussion;)

Additionally, employers are willing to pay a premium for highly qualified
applicants.  For example, many companies desire employees who are competent in
more than one language and offer higher salaries to attract them. Even if a job
applicant without a college degree has high standardized test scores, employers
may still place a higher value on an applicant with similar test scroes who
also possesses credentials from a well-known university. Because of the extent
to which a college degree is accepted by employers as proof of competence in a
given field, college graduates are not only more likely to receive more job
offers, they can also command higher salaries than applicants who lack college
diplomas.

(arg2: higher salaries; example; discussion;)

Finally, in additiona to offering more choices and higher salaries, a college
degree offers access to jobs with a clear path towards professional
advancement. A B.S. in biology, for example, could allow a student to find a
job in a lab after graduation, a first step on the road towards a career in
scientific research. The same major could also be used to apply to medical
school, and a career as a doctor. Both of these avenues would be unavailable
without taking the first step of an undergraduate degree in biology.

(arg3: opportunity for advancement; example; discussion;)

002 Are parents the best teachers?
------------------------------

Obviously, in most cases the earliest teachers people have are their parents,
and parents are generally most concerned about the development of their
children. However, it is not completely true to say that parants are the best
teachers.

(introductory sentence; attitude statement -- opposite;)

First of all, not all parents are good teachers. As normal indivisuals, some
parents more or less have some bad habits. Even though parents almost
instinctively devete themselves to cultivating their offspring, the outcome
might turn out to be disappointment, for all children tend to unconsciously of
subconsciously copy everything including bad ones from their parents.  Another
deficiency of parents as teachers is the fact that most parents are lack of
common senses of education. All too often we observe some parents tend to
pursue their cherished but failed dream by forcing their children to develop in
a prearranged direction. Ironically, when their children do not follow the
instructions, the children will be regarded as disobedient or allegely
rebellious. In fact, it is parents rather than their children that virtually
disobey common senses.

(bad habits; lack in common sense of education)

Moreover, some parents are qualified as good teachers, but not all of them are
the best ones. When children are in the preliminary school, it is not
surprising that parents are prehaps capable of teaching their children almost
every subject even better than professional teachers in the school. But the
situation will not last long. We live in a world where knowledge is accumulated
by multiplying and at the same time becomes more and more specialized.
Thereforeee, to be a professional in a certain field today takes much longer
time than has ever been before. No parant is able to be professional in all
fields, though they might be exprets in one or more fields. Wise parents often
release rather than charge their children as early as possible. They are ware
of the possibility outside the family.

(parents are not professional in all the fields)

Parents may, nevertheless, help their children much more than do good teachers.
Most parts of children education are virtually beyond teacher's reaches. It is
parents that supplement. Psychology studies have shown us that parents' love
sometimes has astonishingly magic power to their children. Abert Einstein' s
mother and that of Forest Gump are both good examples. On the other hand,
parents might do their children harm more than do bad teachers as well. The
natures of theose children whose parents have divorced are often severely
distorted.  In a word, it is rather superficial to simply say that parents are
the best teachers.

(beyond reach; divorce).

003 Does easier-prepared food improve the way people live?
----------------------------------------------------------

People today can prepare their meal much easier than has ever been before.  To
prepare a single dinner, provident housewives usually had to word for hours in
the past: they had to buy home dirty vegetables which had to wash, meat which
had to slice, and so on so forth. Each and every step of preparation was a
time-consuming task. But now, things are entirely different. Supermarkets
provide vegetables and meat clean and net, some of them even have relevant
ingredients and need only a few minutes to be made into delicious meals. And
this change has indeed greatly improved the way people live.

(introductory paragraph; attitude statement)

In a sense, food preparation is no longer a tedious task, at least much easier
to tolerate. Such a change has liberated many women and given them change to do
more meaningful things, for example, a higher pay job or a more respectful one.
On the other hand, more men are becoming willing to do the thing that they once
hated so much, and in some cases such transformation of men brought dramatic
positive impact on the family. Today, it's not hard to imagine a wife comes
home after a day's hard work and how delightful she is to find out his husband
has already prepared her several her favorite dishes! Children can more easily
become indenpendent -- at least they cam make themselves breakfasts or dinners
when parents are occasionally not present.

(food preparation no longer tedious)

But such a change has also brought some unexpected consequences. Girls nowadays
are becoming more and more reluctant to deem household work as their
responsibility. The reason is quite straightforward: it was once really
ridiculous to insist men do trivial household work rather than go work and earn
money to support family, but conditions have altered now, girls might think: "I
can work as well, or maybe I can earn a higher salary than you do, dear boy
friend, if you want to marry me, answer me one question first, will you prepare
me breakfast and dinner every day?" And some boys, one the other hand, are
becoming besitant to get married, or simply remain solitary, among
miscellaneous reasons they do so is one thing: "I can take care of myself, at
least I don't really need someone prepare me dinner!"

(social changes)

Anyway, such a change is positive and it did improve the quality of people's
life.  At least it has brought girls, boys, husbands, wives, children and
everyone else who has to prepare food an opportunity, no matter what kind of
opportunity it is.

(conclusion)

004 Which is more important, book knowledge or experience?
----------------------------------------------------------

In general, knowledge gained from books has a wider range than that gained from
experience. We now live in a world that typophile is no longer exorbitant, and
that printed matters are readily available. In libraries, we can learn nearly
everything only if we have already acquired basic reading skills, philosophy,
history, literature, phisics, mathematics, chemicals, biology, geography,
anthropology, and the list will go on. Unlike the experience of an individual
that is limited by the range of that individual, books seem to have almost no
limitation. Sitting in the local library, we virtually can travel everywhere
through an interesting geographic encyclopedia, and certainly, with nearly no
expense at all.

(introductory paragraph)

On the other hand, it can be argued that sometime gained from experience is
much deeper and more comprehensive than that gained from books. It is quite
true that not every thing is contained in books. How to deal with personal
finance, how to cope with current social trends, even how to most effectively
organize our own mind, and numerous other things can seldom be found thoroughly
and comprehensively discussed in books, we have to gain the knowledge by our
own experience. And the sad news is that even some knowledge that is contained
in books usually needs further comprehension, mainly through experience.

(experience)

As to which source is more important, the answers vary. Some knowledge can be
acquired only through books. It's hard to imagine we can have a good
understanding of history without reading books. On the other hand, some
knowledge can be obtained only through experience. When we try to learn to swim
,mrely a detailed manual of swimming skills, even aboundantly filled with
illustrations, is at most useless. We have to jump into the water and then gain
the knowledge with experience. We have to use books and experience as source
simultaneously to get what we want to know. Take learning physics for example,
both books and experiences are equally important sources, and examples as such
are numerous. Therefore, I think whether one source is more important than the
other depends on circumstances.

(book; it depends)

005 The advantages and disadvantages of a new factory near your community?
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

I live in a primarily agricultural community, and most of the population lives
hand to mouth.  Parents keep children home from school to work in the fields.
If there is a flood or a draught, people starve. A new factory would mean
regular monthly salaries as well as protection against natural disasters or a
sudden drop in the price of our main agricultural product, say, corn.

(background, benefit)

Regular salaries would allow families the confidence to make investments in
their futures.  The locals would be able to plan their finances accurately and
free themselves from debt.  This in turn would encourage entrepreneurship and
further develop the local economy.  People could begin to open shops,
restaurants, dormitories, and entertainment facilities to serve the factory
workers with their savings. Profits from these small enterprises would further
enrich the local community and turn our relatively poor farmland into a truly
profitable development zone. Perhaps more parents could then afford to send all
of their children to high school and maybe even college.

(positive side: salary, social effect, investments to education)

There would certainly be negative effects as well. If the area becomes
prosperous, immigrants from poorer regions will come here looking for work.
Because of their relative poverty they will work harder for less money than the
locals and drive wages down. There might be more immigrants than factory jobs
available, leading to an unemployment crisis with a rising crime rate as a
potential negative side effect.

(negative side: immigrants, competetion, and unemployment)

On the other hand, the proposed factory would almost certainly have adverse
effects on the local environment, particularly in regards to polutting the
water. This is perhaps the most serious concern, because without clean water
the area cannot sustain life of any kind, corn, livestock, or human.

(negative side: environmental impact)

However, because of the relatively desperate economic situation of my hometown,
I believe the potential benefits of opening a new factory would outweight the
risks. If we take the proper precautions, such as imposing strict environmental
standards and providing adequate social services for immigrants, the whole area
stands to benefit.

(conclusion: borderline positive, suggestions)

006 The most important thing you want to change about your hometown
-------------------------------------------------------------------

I was born in a small town named Hailin, located in the North-East of China.
The most serious problems in my hometown are the backward ideas about a woman's
place in the family, school, workplace, and society. These negative stereotypes
hurt not only women, but all of society as well. If possible, I would change
the attitudes of the people in my hometown so they would view men and women
equally.

(background; statement of attitude)

Discrimination against women in my hometown begins before they are even born.
Because people here believe that only a man can carry on the family line, every
family wants to have at least one son. Each family is only supposed to have one
child because of the overpopulation problem. This means that if a family can
find out a fetus is female before it is born they might abort it. Or in other
cases, people will have many female babies before they have a son, which only
makes the population problem worse. If female babies were considered as
important as male babies, then these two problems probably would not exist.

(discrimination against female babies)

Discrimination against girls continues as they go to school and work. The
prevalent stereotype is that women are not as smart as men and we shouldn't
waste time and money educating them. Families often insist that their daughters
stay at home and help with housework while sending their sons to school. Girlds
are born every bit as smart as boys and equally deserve to reap the benefits of
education. Many of the world's famous scientists and leaders are women, from
Marie Curie to Margaret Thacher. We need to eliminate the stereotype that women
are less intelligent than men so that our community can benefit from the
achievements that women are capable of making when armed with education. In
fact, women need to be respected enough to hold professional and leadership
jobs in our community. This would mean that in the classified section of
newspapers, there would no longer be jobs for "men only." We will never know
how many women could have done those jobs better than a man could have until
the parents of every baby girl decide that their daughter is worth as much as
their son. This is probably the most important thing that I want to change
about my hometown.

(discrimination against female students, workers)

007 The influence of movies or television on people's behavior
--------------------------------------------------------------

The impact that movies or television has had on our daily life, and society in
general, is undeniable. No doubt it will become even greater as the scope of
which continues to grow, and as the relevant technologies become more and more
sophisticated, and so fascinating that virtually nobody will be able to escape.
Already, it can be seen how western movies are excercising influence on our
youth generation: they grow long-hair regardless of their gender, commonly part
of which is dyed in gold; they wear jeans in each and every season, usually the
knees of which are deliberately tattered; boys are fond of earrings or other
odd pendants; and girls are keen on Marlboros and weird bad words.

(impact of movies, negative, and examples)

The major means that movies and television influence the public is by creating
topics of discussion in the society. Movies offer people (the consumers) issues
to talk and think about. Titanic had brought a worldwide uproar by its
extolling of fascinating immortal love; Prime Color and Wag the Dog met the
national debate on right and duty of the president of the United States.
Antiwar movies such as Tears of the Sun and All Quiet on the Western Front
among numerous others have been raiseing the question that is any war relly to
uphold justice or is it really worthy that an individual makes sacrifices to
his country and at the same time ignores his own family or his personal values?
Television also shapes our understanding of what is important and what is not
important (to know). The "important" issues are being discussed over and over
or in the beginning of a program. The "not important" stories are the ones that
are not being told at all. The "not very important" stories are probably very
short and hidden in the last part. By prearranging public issue, movies and
television make decisions for us. Even though there are critical thinking
individuals in any society, they are definitely in minority; the public in
whole indeed lack skills of critical thinking, and therefore they are often led
by the movies and television.

(influence; detailed examples and discussions)

In brief, movies and television, by offering topics and affecting the ways in
which we discuss "the important issues", has a strong influence on our
perception of the truth, of the world or of the structure of our society. We
have to admit that it has a role in our lives as a source of information,
experiences, entertainment, amusement and relaxation.

(summary)

008 Has television destroyed communication among people?
--------------------------------------------------------

While television has been somewhat harmful in its effects, it has hardly
"destroyied" communication among frieds and family, altough for some people,
the assertion that television has destroyed communication among frieds and
family seems pretty plausible.

(introduction; statement of attitude)

Television, invented in last century, with its wide availability, increasingly
prosperous programs, becomes one of the most powerful means of communication in
the history, and is more and more difficult to ignore. Television is as much as
a part of our lives as are our meals, work, or school; studies consistently
show that the average American child spends almost as much time watching
television as does he or she in school. We all have only 24 hours a day and it
is clear that the more time one spends on watching television, the less time
one does with his or her family and friends. Hence the passage printed in the
news paper or magazine titled "television took my husband away".

(history, background, influence)

Tempting as such claim might be, it is hardly true. Instead of television, it
is the increasing pressure of modern life that took her husband away. We have
no definite evidence to say people nowadays endure more pressures than did
their counterparts in the past, but it is absolutely true that people nowadays
undergo great pressures that come from various directions, including work,
school, economy, and so forth. Investigations show that people who earn more
than RMB 50000 annually spend at least 60 hours on work per week, much more
than those who earn 20000 annually. Today a bachelor's degree may no longer
guarantee a decent pay, more and more companies post their want ads claiming
that applicants must have at least master's degrees, which take two or three
years longer.

(detailed example. social pressure)

People nowadays have very little time for anything; television is merely among
many other factors that affect communication, and is definitely not the main
cause of degradation. It seems that the more one is educated, the more one is
aware of the deleterious effects that excessive television causes, and either
deliberately avoid it or actually do not enjoy it. On the other hand, there
really are many people addictive to television. But the fact is, were
television not exist, surely these people would have other escapes, such as
alchohol or gambling for example. In other words, people always find a way to
do what they want to do. Therefore, I can hardly agree that television has
destroyed communication among friends and family.

009 Live in a small town or in a big city?
------------------------------------------

People seldom agree with each other even in such trivial issues as preference
between a big city and a small town. It's a little bit haste to say that it is
better to live in a big city than a small town, or vise versa.

Living in a big city has several benefits. First, there are more job
opportunities readily available in big cities than in a small town.  Moreover,
not merely are there more job positions in big cities and the qualities of the
position are much higher as well. In addition, the pay is more decent. Second,
chidren are supposed to be able to receive an education with a higher quality
compared with their counterparts who live in a small town. For families,
children's education is always put in the first place. Finally, living in a big
city usually has a superior living standard to that in a small down. There are
more commodities and services in city markets; there are more public utilities
available in big cities; there are even much more television channels in big
cities.

However, living in a small town also has some advantages. People who live in a
small town often have a much comfortable life style. Most of them do not have
to suffer high working stress. Although the average pay is much less than that
of big cities, the price of daily necessities, such as vegetables or meat, is
usually less expensive. Instead of suffering loneliness which is prevalent in
big cities, children might grow up more healthily because of harmonious
relationship among residents in small town. People in small town do not have to
get up so early in the morning because there has been no traffic jam, and
nobody drive so fast in a small town as to cause car accidents. They might have
fewer channels in television, but they have more friends readily available to
chat or entertain with.

According to my current situation, although I am longing for the cozy
atmosphere and relationship among neighbors and friends which almost only exist
in small cities, I have chosen to live in one of the biggest cities in my
country -- Beijing, since I have found a pretty good job here, and a decent
pay. I think I would prefer living in a small town when I get retired one day.

010 Does luck have anything to do with success?
-----------------------------------------------

Here is a true sotry, a story about an African man called Cinque who slew a
most terryfying best that anyone has ever seen, a lion. His siblings in the
village who know about this anecdote gave him great respect and call him the
big man.

However, he told the truth later.

"It had killed several people, even hunters among us. Everyone including me was
afraid."

"I was lying down with my family, when out of nowhere it appeared."

"As it came for me, I picked up a big rock and I threw it. And that wasn't
bravery, because any man would do the same to protect his family."

"But by some miracle, you see, I hit it. I don'kt know how that killed it, but
it did. A rock, you see, a rock."

"I received the gratitude of everyone in the village. I was given respect.
They treated me as if I was a prince. They gave me the finest country cloth.
All these things they gave me, I took them all. But I knew I didn't deserve it,
for when I threw that rock at that beast, If I missed it, I wouldn't be sitting
here today trying to explain these things to you or somebody else, I'd just be
dead.  I'm not a big man, just a lucky one."

You see, luck does exist. When it appears, mathematicians describe in such a
way that something has an extremely small propability but it does happen.
People often say, one has to have an opportunity to succeed. In this case, luck
is the opportunity, and to some extent is an indispensable factor to achieve
success.

When people say luck has nothing to do with success, I wonder it is not their
intention to deny existence of luck, but to encourage. Because luck in fact is
a factor that one can not and should not count on, even though we know people
who have succeeded have their own luck.  It is somewhere, but nobody knows
where. It happens sometime, but we don't know when. By contrast, hard work is
something that everyone can count on, and as is often the case, hard work might
brigh luck. Therefore, luck itself is of no hope, and lack of luck should not
be an excuse to failure.

011 Should univs finance students' sports activities equally aas libraries?
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The main responsibility of a university is to develop a student's academic
ability. While physical health is an important prerequisite for mental health
and academic achievement, sports should play a comparatively small role in
college student's lives.

Since a student's main activity outside of the classrom is studying, occupying
from four to eight hours of their day, a peaceful studying environment plays an
important role in a student's academic development. College dorm romms can have
up to eight students sleeping in one small room and are not good environments
for students to study in. To provide excellent studying environments for their
students, universities must build large libraries designed to accomodate
students as well as books. Since sports should occypy a much smaller part of
the sdudent's time, perhaps only an hour a day, sports facilities need not be
as extensive or well-equipped as libraries.

In addition to the costs of building adequate library faculties, a university
must also pay every year to keep its collection well organized and up-to-date.

To goal of every university library should be to have the most current books
and materials its students need in order to study and do cutting edge research.
The larger the student body, the more comprehensive a library's collection must
be. A well-trained staff must also care for the materials and help the student.

Continuing costs for sports, on the other hand, are relatively low, requiring
only a few part-time staff and maintenance routines. For the most part,
students are happy to organize their own sporting events and excercise routines
quite independently of the school.

Although a student's health is critical to theire academic success, the
investment that a school needs to make to ensure a physically fit student body
is relatively small. Considering that the main mission of the school is to
develop a student's mind and not their body, the school should put more of its
resources into its libraries and not its sports activities.

012 Why people visit museums?
-----------------------------

People travel to new places for many different reasons. One of the most commen
reasons is to see a new place, culture, or way of life. For a total outsider
with only a short amount of time, museums offer a glimpse into these ways of
life through specially designed education, cultural insights, and
entertainment.

People come to museums to learn about the world. The educational experience in
a museum is quite different than that of reading or studying. In a museum,
learning experiences are direct and thrilling. Reading books about primitive
history might seem boring, but seeing the huge skeleton of a terrifying
dinosaur in person is a thirlling experience. Reading history hooks about the
Nanjing Massacre are horrifying, sad, and yet abstract, but a trip to the
Memorial Museum in Nanjing is an experience that has moved many students to
tears. Museums can make otherrrwise distant and mundane educational experiences
come to life.

The museums of a place tell an outsider much about what the people of that
place value culturally. A trip to the New York Metropolitan Museum of Art would
tell the visitor that Americans are interested in art from all over the world,
but by comparing the size of the European Art collection with that of the Asian
Art collection, one might conclude that Americans feel a strong cultural
affinity with European Art. Similarly, a tourist to a place like San Francisco,
where there is a large museum devoted solely to Asian Art, might conclude that
people from San Francisco have a stronger affinity to Asian culture.

Meanwhile, amny people who travel simply want to relax and be entertained, and
museums also provide an excellent venue for leisure. Even most nominally
educational museums provide exciting attractions like movie theaters and
special cultural performances such as dances, gourmet dinners, lectures, and
musical performances from jazz to rock and roll. Many museums in the United
States hold special nights once a week where yound people can drink and
socialize. Museums are not only spaces for education and culture, but have also
become important entertainment and social venues.

013 Eat at home or out?
-----------------------

After a hard day of work or study, many people feel like cooking for themselves
is too much trouble. They prefer to grab a quick bite to eat at restaurant and
go home for rest as quickly as possible. But for me cooking at home is worth
the time and trouble because it is cheaper, healthier, and more enjoyable.

Buying my own groceries and cooking for myself is much less expensive than
eating in a restaurant. I find that a meal that I cook myself on average costs
half to two-thirds less than a comparable meal in a restaurant. Restaurants
have to rent space, hire chefs, waiters, and managers, as well as buy food and
make a profit. When I cook I have no overhead. The only extra espense I have to
pay is the time it takes for me to cook the food.

In additiona to being less expensive, when I buy my own groceries I can be sure
I am buying the freshest and cleanest meats and vegetables available.
Restaurants might think it's more important to buy the cheapest food possible
in large quantities to make a higher profit. I also try and buy the healthiest
food possible. For instance, when I buy meat, I try and buy the meat with the
least fat on it. In restaurant they add more fat and oil to dishes to make them
taste better, but for me, health is more important.

Finally, cooking food with my friends and family brings me a special kind of
joy.  In a world that has increasingly focused on turning everyone into
consumers, I enjoy being creative and producing something good. I enjoy
learning and inventing new recipes and sharing them with friends. Even though
it takes more time to shop, cook, and clean up when I cook for myself, at the
end I have a sense that I did not waste the time so much as I truly enjoyed
life for an hour at the end of the day.

014 Attending classes: required or optoinal?
--------------------------------------------

The most important responsibility of college students is to pursue their course
of study to the best of their ability. In most cases, this would mean attending
every class.  In reality, however, not every student is the same, and not every
class is the same. If a student can study more effectively in another way, then
that student should be allowed to pursue his/her studies to the best of his/her
abilities, and not be required to attend classes that are not helpful to
him/her.

Some students find it difficult to concentrate in large lecture classes and
find reading quitly a more effective  way of studying. If a student can achieve
more by reading in the library and metting with a professor during office hours
than students who attend every class, he/she should not be prevented from
studying in the most effective way for him/her.

The most important measures of a college student's academic progress are tests.
In the weeks before exams, college student's need to arrange their own
schedules becomes critical. For instance, if a student is very good at math but
very poor at English, it might make more sense for that student to skip math
class and spend the extra time preparing for an English test. If students are
required to attend classes whose content they are already familiar with, at
best they will be bored by redundant material, at worse they will fail tests in
subjects they are less proficient in.

The argument might be made that it is the school's responsibility to organize
its curriculum so that students are always challenged and therefore truly need
to be at every class. I contend that it is impossible to tailor an entire
school's curriculum to the individual needs of every single student. The best
that can be hoped for is a well thought out curriculum with enough flexibility
to handle the differences between individual students. Schools should trust the
students to make choices that are in their own best interests, and use testing
as the final arbiter of academic excellence.

015 What makes a good neighbor?
-------------------------------

Neighbors are extraordinarily important people in our lives. Many people make a
decision about what place they want to live in based on their future neighbors.
People most want to live near neighbors who are respectful, vigilant, and
community-minded.

The foundation of any relationship, whether among neighbors or friends,
colleagues or family members, is mutual respect. Respect between neighbors
means that when they see each other they will be warn and polite. Neighbors
don't have to be friends, but they need not be strangers either. Because
neighbors live close together, sometimes it is unavoidable that they will learn
personal details about their neighbors. A respectful person will not introde
upon their neighbor's privacy, or share these private details with anyone else.

Another important aspect of being a good neighbor is to be vigilant. If people
see a robber thrying to break into their neighbor's house, then they should call
the police. If they see a neighbor's yound child in a dangerous situation, they
should help the child, or at least give the alarm. If the government posts new
regulations, they will help inform their neighbors of the new laws. If everyone
in a neighborhood watches out for each other's safety, then the neighborhood
will be a safer and more pleasant place.

Moreover, good neighbors ar ecommunity-minded. They care about their local
environment. Good neighbors will not throuw trash on the ground, and if they see
trash on the ground they will pick it up. They will make decisions based with
consideration to their neighbors. They won't play loud music late at night or 
get drunk and fight in public. They want to live in a happy, peaceful community
and they believe that their personal actions have a direct effect on the 
happiness of all of their neighbors. If all the people in the community think
about the good of the community when they make decisions, the whole community
will benefit.

016 What's your opinion on a new restaurant built in your neighborhood?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Until recently our neighborhood hasn't had any restaurants. We have a local 
food market and several small convenience stores, and even several street side
food stands, but no real restaurants. I'm personally in favor of opening a new
restaurant in our neighborhood, and I believe it will make people's lives more
convenient, support the local economy, and create a healthier community spirit.

Cooking at home every night is time-consuming and tiring for local families.
After a long day at work, local people have to spend at least one hour to shop
for groceries, and even more for cooking dinner, and cleaning up after the
meal. By the time all is finished, they almost have no time to enjoy the
company of their families. Eating out would save time if there were a
restaurant nearby, but the closest restaurant is a 30-minute walk away. If a
restaurant opened in our neighborhood it would allow local people to relax for
a night or two every week and enjoy more time with their families.

A new restaurant would also help the local economy. Building the restaurant
would require the labor of local carpenters, plumbers, and electricians. The
new restaurant would need to buy a great deal of food and produce from local
markets and supplies like furniture, cooking utensils, and everyday items from
local merchants. It would also create jobs for waiters, managers, and chefs.
Perhaps most importantly, a new restaurant could also potentially attract
business from the surrounding neighborhoods, brigning more investment into our
community.

Finally a new restaurant would give local people a public space to gather and
talk in. Our community has few suitable open spaces for people to meet and have
conversations. The streets and markets are too noisy, and the shops have no
place to sit down. People who were once strangers could meet in this restaurant
and become better acquainted with one another; new friendships could be forged
while old friendships could be strengthended. The benefits of a restaurant to
community life are harder to measure than are its economic benefits, but in my
opinion are sorely needed in our community.
