01 Why people attend college?
=============================

After graduating from high school many young people have the option to directly
enter the work force. Most students who have the opportunity, however, decide
to go to college before finding jobs. They attend college to obtain more
choices, higher salaries, and more opportunities for advancement in an
increasingly competitive job market.

Before attending college, students have a limited opportunity to specialize.
After obtaining a specific college degree a job applicant can be competitive
for previously unavailable jobs. For instance, applicants with Computer Science
degrees would not only be qualified for jobs in high-tech companies, they would
also be well prepared for any job with computer skills as a prerequisite. With
a larger range of potential jobs to choose from, degree holders are more likely
to find a job that suites their particular needs and interests.

Additionally, employers are willing to pay a premium for highly qualified
applicants.  For example, many companies desire emploees who are competent in
more than one language and offer higher salaries to attract them. Even if a job
applicant without a college degree has high standarized test scores, emploers
may still place a higher value on an applicant with similar test scores who
also possesses credentials from a well-known university. Because of the extent
to which a college degree is accepted by employers as proof of competence in a
given field, college graduates are not only more likely to receive more job
offers, they can also command higher salaris than applicants who lack college
diplomas.

Finally, in addition to offering more choices and higher salaries, a college
degree offers access to jobs with a clear path towards professional
advancement. A B.S. in biology, for example, could allow a student to find a
job in a lab after graduation, a first step on the road towards a career in
scientific research. The same major could also be used to apply to medical
school, and a career as a doctor. Both of these avenues would be unavailable
without taking the first step of an undergraduate degree in biology.

02 Are parents the best teachers?
=================================

Obviously, in most cases the earliest teachers people have are their parents,
and parents are generally most concerned about the development of their
children.  However, it is not completely true to say that parents are the best
teachers.

First of all, not all parents are good teachers. As normal individuals, some
parents more or less have some bad habits. Even though parents almost
instinctively devote themselves to cultivating their offspring, the outcome
might turn out to be disappointment, for all children tend to unconsciously or
subconsciously copy everything including bad ones from their parents. Anotehr
deficiency of parents as teachers is the fact that most parents are lack of
common senses of education. All too often we observe some parents tend to
pursue their cherished but failed dream by forcintg their children to develop
in a prearranged direction. Ironically, when their children do not follow the
instructions, the children will be regarded as disobedient or allegedly
rebellious. In fact, it is parents rather than their children that virtually
disobey commen senses.

Moreover, some parents are qualified as good teachers, but not all of them are
best ones. When children are in the preliminary school, it is not surprising
that parents are perhaps capable of teaching their children almost every
subject even better than professional teachers in the school. But the situation
will not last long. We live in a world where knowledge is accumulated by
multiplying and at the same time becomes more and more specialized. Therefore,
to be a professional in a cerntain field today takes much longer time than has
ever been before. No parent is able to be professional in all fields, though
they might be experts in one or more fields. Wise parents often release rather
than charge their children as early as possible. They are aware of the
possibility outside the family.

Parents may, nevertheless, help their children much more than do good teachers.
Most parts of children education are virtually beyond teachers' reaches. It is
parents that supplement. Psychology studies have shown us that parents' love
sometimes has astonishingly magic power to their children. Albter Einstein's
mother and that of Forest Gump are both good examples. On the other hand,
parents might do their children harm more than do bad teachers as well. The
natures of those children whose parents have divorced are often severly
distorted. In a word, it is rather superficial to simply say that parents are
the best teachers.
