#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype true
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
EN 520.665 HW#2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Mo Zhou <mzhou32@jhu.edu>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Q1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consider a first order Gaussian Markov random field with a single coefficient.
 Derive the constraint on the coefficient so that the Markov random field
 is stable.
 Calculate the eigenvalues and eigenvector of the covariance matrix of the
 data obeying this MRF model assuming doubly-periodic boundary conditions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Q2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Compare the computational complexity of Gibbs and Metropolis sampling algorithm
 for synthesizing an NxN texture image.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Q3 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Calculate the number of parameters in AlexNet, VGGnet, ResNet and InceptionNet.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Q4
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Show that if the transfer function of the hidden units is linear, a three-layer
 network is equivalent to a two-layer one.
 Explain why, therefore, that a three-layer network with linear hidden units
 cannot solve a non-linearly separable problem such as XOR or n-bit parity.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Q5
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What problem(s) will result from using a learning rate that is too high?
 How would you detect these problems? What problem(s) will result from using
 a learning rate that is too low? How would you detect these problems?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
