#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Final exam
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Q1: (1) RVs, Fns of RVs; (2) Hypothesis testing; (3) parameter estimation;
 HW3.3; ROC curve; probability of error; MLE (discrete/continuous), bias,
 MSE, ....
 Exclude: exp family, conjugate prior.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Q2: (1) graphical model; (2) EM algorithm; inference.
 (3) markov chain (minor).
 EM-[6.438 sec 22], [6.437 sec 12].
 unstable to differentiate the PDF -> EM.
 the transmittion example; HW6.4.
 Recitation(inference strategies).
 Recitation(em algorithm).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Q3: (1) kalman filter; (2) dirichlet process; (3) gaussian process;
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
HMMs.
 discrete states, transition matrix.
 Kalman filter: continuous state space, (linear gaussian markov model),
 
\begin_inset Formula $P(X_{*}|Y_{1:*-1})$
\end_inset

 prior Gaussian; 
\begin_inset Formula $P(Y_{*}|X_{*};Y_{1:*-1})$
\end_inset

 likelihood (gaussian).
 Posterior 
\begin_inset Formula $P(x_{*},y_{*}|y_{1:*})$
\end_inset

 gaussian.
 
\begin_inset Formula $P(x_{*}|y_{*},y_{1:*-1})$
\end_inset

 gaussian.
 BLS=LLS=.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dirichlet process.
 GMM model (bayesian extension).
 DP.
 Sampling...
 
\begin_inset Formula $\pi_{k}$
\end_inset

 using stick breaking.
 
\begin_inset Formula $\phi_{k}$
\end_inset

 using 
\begin_inset Formula $G_{0}$
\end_inset

.
 Chinese restaurant process (CRP) (important but not for exam).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Approximation.
 deterministic (laplace method).
 
\begin_inset Formula $p_{o}(x)=p_{o}(\hat{x})e^{-\frac{1}{2}(x...)}$
\end_inset

.
 HW7.3 (a).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
