#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{microtype}
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "times" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
EN.520.665 Homework #1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Mo Zhou <mzhou32@jhu.edu>
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Gaussian Smoothing Filter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\bar under
Q: Justify the use of Gaussian smoothing filter in the context of a) Marr-Hildre
th operator, 2) Canny edge detector and the SIFT operator.
 Compare and contrast the underlying assumptions and implications.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\series bold
Marr-Hildreth Operator
\series default
 involves Gaussian filter in the form of LoG (Laplacian of Gaussian).
 Since differential operations may amplify noise, the Gaussian filter is
 used as a low-pass filter to suppress noise as well as smoothing the input.
 Specifically, the Marr-Hildreth operator involves the determination of
 zero crossings fo the second directional derivative, whicn means its has
 to compute
\begin_inset Formula $f(x,y)=D^{2}[G(\vec{r})*I(x,y)]=D^{2}G*I(x,y).$
\end_inset

 In this formulation, 
\begin_inset Formula $D^{2}G$
\end_inset

 is the Laplacian of Gaussian.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\series bold
Canny Edge Detector
\series default
 also adopts Gaussian filter to smooth the input and reduce noise.
 It approximates a differential equation with the first derivative of the
 Gaussian.
 Canny Edge Detector assumes we are going to detect edges from an input
 with Gaussian noise: 
\begin_inset Formula $I(x)=Au_{-1}(x)+n(x)$
\end_inset

.
 The noise is expected to be zero-mean.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\series bold
SIFT Operator
\series default
 adopts Gaussian filter for smoothing the input and reducing noise as well.
 SIFT allows multi-scale processing, and uses Gaussian smoothing to transform
 the input into scale space: 
\begin_inset Formula $L(x,y,\sigma)=G(x,y,\sigma)*I(x,y)$
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Sub-pixel Extraction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Design a general algorithm for sub-pixel extraction of edges and key points.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
SIFT
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Justify why SIFT is insensitive to scale, illumination and view point (restricte
d).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Rotational Invariance Extension
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Derive the rotational-invariance extension of the local binary pattern texture
 features.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
