#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "biolinum" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "newtxmath" "auto"
\font_default_family sfdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype true
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 2
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part
Object Detection
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Two-Stage Detectors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Single-Stage Detectors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
DETR Family
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
DINO: DETR with improved denoising anchor boxes for end-to-end object detection
 (ICLR23)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Improvements:
\series default
 (1) a contrastive way for denosing training; (2) a look forward twice scheme
 for box prediction; (3) a mixed query selection method for anchor initializatio
n.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Motivations:
\series default
 (1) previous DETR_like models are inferior to the improved classifical
 detectors.
 (2) The performance of DETR-like model has not been tested on large backbone
 with large-scale pre-training data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Base:
\series default
 DN-DETR, DAB-DETR, Deformable-DETR.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
(1) contrastive denoising training.

\series default
 To remove duplicate predictions.
 Add two different noises to both positive and negative samples of the same
 ground truth at the same time.
 After adding the two different noises to the same ground truth box, we
 mark the box with a smaller noise as positive and the other as negative.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
(2) look forward twice.

\series default
 To overcome the shortsightness of refinining boxes in each decoder layer
 (greedy way).
 Correct the updated parameters with gradients from later layers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
(3) mixed query selection.

\series default
 To help better initialize the queries, because the dynamic anchor box formulati
on links DETR-like models with classical two-stage models.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
